apps/www/src/content/docs/installation/laravel.md, before:

---
title: Laravel
description: Install and configure Laravel with Inertia
---

<Steps>

### Create project

Start by creating a new Laravel project with Inertia and Vue using the Laravel installer `laravel new my-app`:

```bash
laravel new my-app --typescript --breeze --stack=vue --git --no-interaction
```

### Run the CLI

Run the `shadcn-vue` init command to setup your project:

```bash
npx shadcn-vue@latest init
```

### Configure components.json

You will be asked a few questions to configure `components.json`:

```txt:line-numbers
Would you like to use TypeScript (recommended)? no / yes
Which framework are you using? Vite / Nuxt / Laravel
Which style would you like to use? › Default
Which color would you like to use as base color? › Slate
Where is your tsconfig.json located? › ./tsconfig.json
Where is your global CSS file? › resources/css/app.css
Do you want to use CSS variables for colors? › no / yes
Where is your tailwind.config.js located? › tailwind.config.js
Configure the import alias for components: › @/Components
Configure the import alias for utils: › @/lib/utils
```

### Update tailwind.config.js

The `shadcn-vue` CLI will automatically overwrite your `tailwind.config.js`. Update it to look like this:

```js
import forms from '@tailwindcss/forms'
import defaultTheme from 'tailwindcss/defaultTheme'

/** @type {import('tailwindcss').Config} */
export default {
  darkMode: 'class',
  content: [
    './vendor/laravel/framework/src/Illuminate/Pagination/resources/views/*.blade.php',
    './storage/framework/views/*.php',
    './resources/views/**/*.blade.php',
    './resources/js/**/*.{ts,tsx,vue}',
  ],

  theme: {
    container: {
      center: true,
      padding: '2rem',
      screens: {
        '2xl': '1400px',
      },
    },
    extend: {
      colors: {
        border: 'hsl(var(--border))',
        input: 'hsl(var(--input))',
        ring: 'hsl(var(--ring))',
        background: 'hsl(var(--background))',
        foreground: 'hsl(var(--foreground))',
        primary: {
          DEFAULT: 'hsl(var(--primary))',
          foreground: 'hsl(var(--primary-foreground))',
        },
        secondary: {
          DEFAULT: 'hsl(var(--secondary))',
          foreground: 'hsl(var(--secondary-foreground))',
        },
        destructive: {
          DEFAULT: 'hsl(var(--destructive))',
          foreground: 'hsl(var(--destructive-foreground))',
        },
        muted: {
          DEFAULT: 'hsl(var(--muted))',
          foreground: 'hsl(var(--muted-foreground))',
        },
        accent: {
          DEFAULT: 'hsl(var(--accent))',
          foreground: 'hsl(var(--accent-foreground))',
        },
        popover: {
          DEFAULT: 'hsl(var(--popover))',
          foreground: 'hsl(var(--popover-foreground))',
        },
        card: {
          DEFAULT: 'hsl(var(--card))',
          foreground: 'hsl(var(--card-foreground))',
        },
      },
      borderRadius: {
        lg: 'var(--radius)',
        md: 'calc(var(--radius) - 2px)',
        sm: 'calc(var(--radius) - 4px)',
      },
      fontFamily: {
        sans: ['Figtree', ...defaultTheme.fontFamily.sans],
      },
      keyframes: {
        'accordion-down': {
          from: { height: 0 },
          to: { height: 'var(--radix-accordion-content-height)' },
        },
        'accordion-up': {
          from: { height: 'var(--radix-accordion-content-height)' },
          to: { height: 0 },
        },
      },
      animation: {
        'accordion-down': 'accordion-down 0.2s ease-out',
        'accordion-up': 'accordion-up 0.2s ease-out',
      },
    },
  },

  plugins: [forms, require('tailwindcss-animate')],
}
```

### That's it

You can now start adding components to your project.

```bash
npx shadcn-vue@latest add button
```

The command above will add the `Button` component to your project. You can then import it like this:

```vue {2,7}
<script setup lang="ts">
import { Button } from '@/Components/ui/button'
</script>

<template>
  <div>
    <Button>Click me</Button>
  </div>
</template>
```

</Steps>

Commit message:

docs: fix Installation Configure components.json

apps/www/src/content/docs/installation/laravel.md, after:

---
title: Laravel
description: Install and configure Laravel with Inertia
---

<Steps>

### Create project

Start by creating a new Laravel project with Inertia and Vue using the Laravel installer `laravel new my-app`:

```bash
laravel new my-app --typescript --breeze --stack=vue --git --no-interaction
```

### Run the CLI

Run the `shadcn-vue` init command to setup your project:

```bash
npx shadcn-vue@latest init
```

### Configure components.json

You will be asked a few questions to configure `components.json`:

```txt:line-numbers
Would you like to use TypeScript (recommended)? no / yes
Which framework are you using? Vite / Nuxt / Laravel
Which style would you like to use? › Default
Which color would you like to use as base color? › Slate
Where is your tsconfig.json or jsconfig.json file? › ./tsconfig.json
Where is your global CSS file? › resources/css/app.css
Do you want to use CSS variables for colors? › no / yes
Where is your tailwind.config.js located? › tailwind.config.js
Configure the import alias for components: › @/Components
Configure the import alias for utils: › @/lib/utils
Write configuration to components.json. Proceed? > Y/n
```

### Update tailwind.config.js

The `shadcn-vue` CLI will automatically overwrite your `tailwind.config.js`. Update it to look like this:

```js
import forms from '@tailwindcss/forms'
import defaultTheme from 'tailwindcss/defaultTheme'

/** @type {import('tailwindcss').Config} */
export default {
  darkMode: 'class',
  content: [
    './vendor/laravel/framework/src/Illuminate/Pagination/resources/views/*.blade.php',
    './storage/framework/views/*.php',
    './resources/views/**/*.blade.php',
    './resources/js/**/*.{ts,tsx,vue}',
  ],

  theme: {
    container: {
      center: true,
      padding: '2rem',
      screens: {
        '2xl': '1400px',
      },
    },
    extend: {
      colors: {
        border: 'hsl(var(--border))',
        input: 'hsl(var(--input))',
        ring: 'hsl(var(--ring))',
        background: 'hsl(var(--background))',
        foreground: 'hsl(var(--foreground))',
        primary: {
          DEFAULT: 'hsl(var(--primary))',
          foreground: 'hsl(var(--primary-foreground))',
        },
        secondary: {
          DEFAULT: 'hsl(var(--secondary))',
          foreground: 'hsl(var(--secondary-foreground))',
        },
        destructive: {
          DEFAULT: 'hsl(var(--destructive))',
          foreground: 'hsl(var(--destructive-foreground))',
        },
        muted: {
          DEFAULT: 'hsl(var(--muted))',
          foreground: 'hsl(var(--muted-foreground))',
        },
        accent: {
          DEFAULT: 'hsl(var(--accent))',
          foreground: 'hsl(var(--accent-foreground))',
        },
        popover: {
          DEFAULT: 'hsl(var(--popover))',
          foreground: 'hsl(var(--popover-foreground))',
        },
        card: {
          DEFAULT: 'hsl(var(--card))',
          foreground: 'hsl(var(--card-foreground))',
        },
      },
      borderRadius: {
        lg: 'var(--radius)',
        md: 'calc(var(--radius) - 2px)',
        sm: 'calc(var(--radius) - 4px)',
      },
      fontFamily: {
        sans: ['Figtree', ...defaultTheme.fontFamily.sans],
      },
      keyframes: {
        'accordion-down': {
          from: { height: 0 },
          to: { height: 'var(--radix-accordion-content-height)' },
        },
        'accordion-up': {
          from: { height: 'var(--radix-accordion-content-height)' },
          to: { height: 0 },
        },
      },
      animation: {
        'accordion-down': 'accordion-down 0.2s ease-out',
        'accordion-up': 'accordion-up 0.2s ease-out',
      },
    },
  },

  plugins: [forms, require('tailwindcss-animate')],
}
```

### That's it

You can now start adding components to your project.

```bash
npx shadcn-vue@latest add button
```

The command above will add the `Button` component to your project. You can then import it like this:

```vue {2,7}
<script setup lang="ts">
import { Button } from '@/Components/ui/button'
</script>

<template>
  <div>
    <Button>Click me</Button>
  </div>
</template>
```

</Steps>
