apps/www/src/content/docs/installation/vite.md, before:

---
title: Vite
description: Install and configure Vite.
---

<Steps>

### Create project

Start by creating a new Vue project using `vite`:

```bash
# npm 6.x
npm create vite@latest my-vue-app --template vue-ts

# npm 7+, extra double-dash is needed:
npm create vite@latest my-vue-app -- --template vue-ts
```

### Add Tailwind and its configuration

Install `tailwindcss` and its peer dependencies, then generate your `tailwind.config.js` and `postcss.config.js` files:

```bash
npm install -D tailwindcss postcss autoprefixer

npx tailwindcss init -p
```

### Edit tsconfig.json

Add the code below to the compilerOptions of your tsconfig.json so your app can resolve paths without error

```typescript
"baseUrl": ".",
"paths": {
  "@/*": ["./src/*"]
}
```

### Update vite.config.ts

Add the code below to the vite.config.ts so your app can resolve paths without error

```typescript
import path from "path"
import vue from "@vitejs/plugin-vue"
import { defineConfig } from "vite"

export default defineConfig({
  plugins: [vue()],
  resolve: {
    alias: {
      "@": path.resolve(__dirname, "./src"),
    },
  },
})
```

### Run the CLI

Run the `shadcn-vue` init command to setup your project:

```bash
npx shadcn-vue@latest init
```

### Configure components.json

You will be asked a few questions to configure `components.json`:

```txt showLineNumbers
Would you like to use TypeScript (recommended)? no / yes
Which framework are you using? Vite / Nuxt / Laravel
Which style would you like to use? › Default
Which color would you like to use as base color? › Slate
Where is your global CSS file? › › src/index.css
Do you want to use CSS variables for colors? › no / yes
Where is your tailwind.config.js located? › tailwind.config.js
Configure the import alias for components: › @/components
Configure the import alias for utils: › @/lib/utils 
```

### That's it

You can now start adding components to your project.

```bash
npx shadcn-vue@latest add button
```

The command above will add the `Button` component to your project. You can then import it like this:

```vue {2,7}
<script setup lang="ts">
import { Button } from '@/components/ui/button'
</script>

<template>
  <div>
    <Button>Click me</Button>
  </div>
</template>
```

</Steps>

Commit message:

docs: add @types/node section in Vite installation(#289)
Add install @types/node to follow the documentation in shadcn-ui. And import path without an error

apps/www/src/content/docs/installation/vite.md, after:

---
title: Vite
description: Install and configure Vite.
---

<Steps>

### Create project

Start by creating a new Vue project using `vite`:

```bash
# npm 6.x
npm create vite@latest my-vue-app --template vue-ts

# npm 7+, extra double-dash is needed:
npm create vite@latest my-vue-app -- --template vue-ts
```

### Add Tailwind and its configuration

Install `tailwindcss` and its peer dependencies, then generate your `tailwind.config.js` and `postcss.config.js` files:

```bash
npm install -D tailwindcss postcss autoprefixer

npx tailwindcss init -p
```

### Edit tsconfig.json

Add the code below to the compilerOptions of your tsconfig.json so your app can resolve paths without error

```typescript
"baseUrl": ".",
"paths": {
  "@/*": ["./src/*"]
}
```

### Update vite.config.ts

Add the code below to the vite.config.ts so your app can resolve paths without error

```bash
# (so you can import "path" without error)
npm i -D @types/node
```

```typescript
import path from "path"
import vue from "@vitejs/plugin-vue"
import { defineConfig } from "vite"

export default defineConfig({
  plugins: [vue()],
  resolve: {
    alias: {
      "@": path.resolve(__dirname, "./src"),
    },
  },
})
```

### Run the CLI

Run the `shadcn-vue` init command to setup your project:

```bash
npx shadcn-vue@latest init
```

### Configure components.json

You will be asked a few questions to configure `components.json`:

```txt showLineNumbers
Would you like to use TypeScript (recommended)? no / yes
Which framework are you using? Vite / Nuxt / Laravel
Which style would you like to use? › Default
Which color would you like to use as base color? › Slate
Where is your global CSS file? › › src/index.css
Do you want to use CSS variables for colors? › no / yes
Where is your tailwind.config.js located? › tailwind.config.js
Configure the import alias for components: › @/components
Configure the import alias for utils: › @/lib/utils 
```

### That's it

You can now start adding components to your project.

```bash
npx shadcn-vue@latest add button
```

The command above will add the `Button` component to your project. You can then import it like this:

```vue {2,7}
<script setup lang="ts">
import { Button } from '@/components/ui/button'
</script>

<template>
  <div>
    <Button>Click me</Button>
  </div>
</template>
```

</Steps>
